What if you could take someone who is on
their deathbed and find some way to
hibernate them until the sort of
critical cure for their disease comes
online?
>> The ability to freeze time for humans. I
didn't actually think that was something
you could go work on. So apparently it
is.
>> Our long-term goal is reversible whole
body cry preservation for medical
hibernation. But in the near term, what
we work on is reversibly cry preserving
single human organs to help transplant
patients get organs more efficiently.
Making time not a variable changes the
whole paradigm. One thing I love about
the field of cry preservation is I think
like the problem speaks for itself.
Water expands when it forms ice. That's
just hard for your tissue to take
without substantial damage. And the cool
thing is that there's sort of a
temperature below which ice formation
stops happening. So basically if you can
traverse and you can get below that
without ice formation, then you're good.
We already reversibly cry preserve
tissue including human tissue all the
time and we do it for very long time
periods. There are kids who were
literally cryerved for 30 years as tiny
embryos. And so the main question is not
is this possible to do at all. It's is
it possible to scale up. Given that's
true, why don't you think it's been
worked on? Um,
>> hi listeners. Welcome back to No Priors.
Today I'm really excited to be here with
Laura Deming, previously the founder of
the Longevity Fund and now the
co-founder and CEO of Until. We're going
to talk about how until is progressing
the frontier of reversible
cryopreservation
or freezing living things and waking
them back up. Beginning with human
organs progressing to small animals and
hopefully making progress on the whole
body. It sounds like science fiction,
but we'll talk about some of the
scientific challenges where we are today
and the implications if this is
possible. Thanks so much. Welcome,
Laura. Laura, thanks so much for doing
this.
>> Yeah, thanks for having me. I've been so
looking forward to this since our
Pantheon watch sessions. We're talking
about upload and the nature of
consciousness. But one thing that you
don't know is that my like very long ago
wished for technologies that I wanted to
exist were telepathy and like upload the
ability to to freeze time for humans. I
didn't actually think that was something
you could go work on. So apparently it
is. How do you end up working on that or
being interested in longevity at all?
>> There there's two different questions.
So yeah, I come from longevity
background, but in my mind like um
reversible cry preservation is is
applicable a bit outside of that as
well. I don't know. I mean, I think I'm
really obsessed with areas that feel
like they should be worked on but
aren't. Um and you know, when I was a
kid, I think naively just growing up
that seemed really obvious for
longevity. Um and it's really surprising
to realize that, you know, it's not the
case that most people like are working
on that explicitly as a goal. in fact
that like it's it's kind of like I think
longevity and aging kind of occupy this
weird realm where because they're not
like explicitly diseases in a way that's
fully socially recognized yet they're
not seen as valid to work on but like
that's not really for I think technical
reasons on some level it's more for like
classification reasons because like you
know you can extend the lifespan of like
uh sort of many different organisms
using technology um and how much you can
do that in humans we have no idea and
you know it could be very small
technology but sort of like I think
longevity is interesting because it
feels like an area where there's a
social blind spot around something and I
find those very interesting.
>> Perhaps I was just I'm sure this is true
uh not very observant as a uh you know
schoolaged child but I don't think I
even understood aging was like a concept
that I should consider at all like and
so how did you end up thinking about it
in any depth?
>> I grew up in a pretty odd setup. So you
know I was in New Zealand I was
homeschooled. Um, I didn't really have a
like I didn't go to a normal biology
class. I was kind of, you know, by
myself in the house.
>> I imagine you like staring at a field of
sheep and then being like, "Someday
we're going to get old. I should do
something about this."
>> Yeah. I know that would have been the
farm that we had for a little bit. But I
I remember one thing that was this
really stood out to me was um at some
point when I was a kid, I was thinking
about how long people in my life were
going to live and how old they were. And
for some reason, it made a lot of sense
to me that everyone should live until
they were 10 years old and then die
immediately at 10 years old. Like I just
that like that seemed like some
hypothesis. I didn't really know how old
people were. And so working backwards, I
was like, "Oh, my dad must be like, you
know, maybe eight and my mom's younger
than him, so like maybe seven." But I
think one thing that was really striking
was realizing that we don't all live
until a certain age and then we die. In
fact, we don't, you know, know like what
determines how long we live. Like that
that was very interesting, right? This
idea that like almost like if we all
lived until 10 years old and then we
died immediately at 10, like I would
feel much more confident if they like
longevity is some kind of invaluable
like hard limit. But the idea that like
there was uncertainty about that, it was
really interesting. And sort of like
what what are the factors behind that
uncertainty?
>> So I'm going to fast forward through a
bunch of like lab work you did and going
to MIT and being a teal fellow like why
a longevity fund?
>> Me just being very literal like at the
time that I was interested in longevity.
I think if you ask the average person in
the field like what's the big problem?
Most people would say well we just can't
get enough funding for our projects and
so that's the big problem. And I just
took that literally like when I was a
teenager. So I solve that problem. Yeah.
I was like literally like I should just
get a lot of money to like help push
longevity drugs forward and the name for
that happened to venture capital fund
but it definitely wasn't working
downstream of the idea of venture
capital like that came after this idea
of like um just getting money for
projects that should have money and and
didn't.
>> You did this for a number of years. What
triggered the like sort of change in how
you were going to spend your attention
to cryopreservation? I think just like
cry preservation is one of the coolest
like I think it's not like to pardon the
pun but I think it's one of the coolest
most interesting like best problems ever
like I think like I mean if from so many
different angles like I think if you're
obsessed with counterfactual impact like
if you're obsessed with like just
technical delight like just raw sheer
like technical interest and diversity
and um like the logical parts of the
problem and then also I think from
perspective of social impact like I'm
just it was just it's such an
interesting problem from like how it's
perceived and then like what are the
different factors of that it was like
zero to one it was like
I remember just seeing the problem
clearly for the first time. I mean a lot
of the people in my life I think had
been aware of it but I just it took me
so long to really I think see it clearly
for myself but then it was just like
zero to one of like this is the only
thing that I could imagine pouring the
next decade of like my work into that
that was after I kind of done kind of
the the first set of work with fun was
kind of like thinking like what is the
next uh like like big thing
>> with your co-founder Hunter. Was it like
an immediately obvious yes, we should
work on this together?
>> He's one of the few people where if I
ask him a question like he'll come back
the next day and give me an answer. He's
literally thought through form for
principles like what the correct answer
is like I remember at some point I
realized that he had written a doc on
like the principles of like you know
preservation like most people you know
like like would write that from the
literature or kind of like citing
different sort of um sources at various
levels of granularity. Hunter went back
and like rederived fundamental laws of
statmech as a part of like this is what
you should know in creservation doc.
Like I I really admire how much he
builds up from like like uh like really
simple models to try to create coherent
like technical pictures that that are
more complex. He's like the most fun
interesting best person to work with um
ever for sure.
>> And it wasn't a hard cell like we should
go work on this problem in particular.
>> It was not a hard cell but it was not an
interesting way. So I I think one thing
that I like love about the field of cry
preservation is I think it's very
compelling like if you like hard like
it's it's one of those things where if
you like the problem speaks for itself
and so I remember telling Hunter about
it in our first call and he basically
was like oh I don't buy it. He he told
me later that he didn't tell me in the
call, but then he went off and thought
about it for a couple days and like
really thought about like what we knew
about ice formation like did you know
some like basic back of the envelope
math and came back and he was like oh
wait this seems like actually feas or
like this seems like it's in the realm
of possibility in a way that is very
different from my initial intuition and
and that that sort of like conjugation
is just so interesting to me. Maybe it's
useful to zoom out and just say like
what is the goal of until
>> I would think about our goal as trying
to create a new form of critical care.
The example that I would give that is
sort of the core of the company is
there's some years where certain
diseases such as like metastatic
melanoma go from being like like sort of
in a single year like metastic melanoma
went from being something that you had
like a 6 to9 month prognosis like less
than a year of expected survival to with
like you know new combination
amotherapies you might have a decade
plus of expected survival or like 50% of
people sort of surviving over a decade
um uh you know without getting sort of
uh death from melanoma in starting to
have other things at that point. The
tagline is like single years can make
the difference between a patient dying
of internal illness and like living long
enough to make the critical cure. But
right now like there's no way to press
pause on their biological time. So like
what if you had an ambulance of the
future, right? Like what if you could
take someone who is on their deathbed
and um you know find some way to you
know just sort of hibernate them
basically until um the sort of critical
cure for their disease comes online. And
like you know and any of this context
we're not talking about necessarily
decades. We're kind of like you know
much longer than that. Initially, it's
just kind of in the context of like when
there's a a window where you could you
could imagine like a critical trial is
being done for a drug that were they
legible for it could make a huge
difference for their disease. to give an
example of like the the need to it's
like my um uh sort of co-founder's uh
father-in-law um had this happened to
him in the sense that he he got sort of
advanced cancer that that would have
been treat or treatable or addressable
by a therapy that came out um basically
a couple months after he was no longer
eligible for um the therapy and he like
missed you know the critical clinical
trial by like you know a couple months
and so sort of like that level of
urgency that like someone in that
position shouldn't have to um you know
miss a critical therapy because there's
a couple month difference in like when
they got their uh sort of disease and
when the therapy became available
>> and from a um just like product
perspective that means you need to do
whole body cryopreservation.
>> Yeah. So so like to give context on
technically how we think about this
problem. So our our long-term goal is
reversible whole body cryopreservation
for you know medical uh sort of
hibernation. Um but in the near term
what we work on is reversibly cry
preserving human single human organs to
help transplant patients get organs more
efficiently. Um, I want to come back to
like all of the technical challenges
here and where we are and what you think
the next milestones are. But because you
you describe it in the context of
medical use like I'm going to be honest
as a kid I was like well um I want to be
able to freeze time because I want to be
able to go to Mars too or you you said
um because you've worked on uh uh
longevity with this perspective like
aging is you know it could be considered
disease a health state we should work on
um that is credible medical science. So
how do you think about those other use
cases?
>> So an interesting thing when you start
to think about um like actually applying
this technology is is sort of what's the
experience of the person not just um
kind of technically for the disease but
socially. So like like one of the number
one reasons most people wouldn't do
medical hibernation and especially that
it wouldn't be like for the most part a
recreational thing is that you know you
I think a lot of people view themselves
in part defined by their social context.
So like
>> when when you say recreational thing,
you mean because like you you just you
think of that as uh going to Mars as a
recreational use case or
>> No, sorry. I think in this case what I'm
thinking of is you know some people
might imagine that they would love to
skip into the future just to see what
happens you know and maybe you know like
have their same amount of number of
years of life but like um have be future
shifted by some amount of time. Yes. But
the number one reason that most people
wouldn't do that and are also just, you
know, very weary of the idea of
hibernation for themselves is, you know,
>> I can't take everybody with me.
>> Yeah. Exactly. It's that like you kind
of define yourself by the people around
you. Um, and so I think I think like,
you know, those kinds of use cases like
going to Mars or like those are all kind
of things that could happen and could
happen with or without um could happen
will require technology for certain like
definitions of mind. Um but but I think
that the thing that a lot of people will
face is just like this question of like
is it worth you know traveling so far to
give up my current social context and
that will put a limit on like how much
people want to use this for like I think
there's like a real cost that that kind
of you incur and so it's in my mind it
only makes sense for like really serious
use use cases initially um where like
you literally would die if or like you
know because yeah because you're you're
kind of putting on the line like your
current like all of your current social
reality and like how that will evolve
without you versus like you know this
other thing that you might want but I
mean a lot of people might want to go to
Mars you know that context but just I
think I'm a little yeah the the cost is
pretty significant.
>> It's very hard to know what we want
though. Like a lot of people might make
that decision whether or not, you know,
their ultimate happiness is higher.
>> It's fair.
>> Maybe you can just break down how you
think about the challenges
scientifically, right? Versus um I think
to maybe even Hunter's original reaction
like sounds like science fiction. I
don't know if you can go work on that
thing. Yeah. Right. And so if it's you
know crystal formation or um uh whatever
the set of challenges and what sequence
you think you should solve them. I see.
Yeah. Maybe I can just give a a series
of of facts that I I think together sort
of make the problem super interesting.
Um so so one one fact is that um ice
formation is a stocastic process. So if
if ice just formed unilaterally in any
given material past a certain point of
temperature like you know just like go
from 0 to one it's like 100% ice like I
that that might be kind of hard to think
carefully about technically but ice sort
of forms through a process of random
nucleation and then extension. And this
is cool because you can uh modulate the
like sort of nucleation the rate of
nucleation and extension to then
modulate the probability of ice
formation. And because that's
probabistic, if you can do that well
enough and you can um sort of spend
minimal time in the temperature range
where ice can nucleate um then that
gives you a shot at sort of preventing a
lot of ice formation. So like the number
one tagline would be like avoid ice at
all or like sort of avoid as much as
possible. There may be some like I think
some people might be working on
technologies to cry preserve with some
sort of like ice formation, but we're
focused on regimes where you're
basically trying to avoid as much ice as
possible. Just for the non-biologists,
you know, ice formation is bad because
it breaks all the cell membranes and
>> Yeah. So, ice formation is bad because
ice expand the water expands when it
forms ice and um that's just hard for
your tissue to take without substantial
damage. Um so, you want to avoid ice
formation. And the cool thing is that
there's a there's sort of a temperature
below which ice formation stops
happening. Um so basically if you can
traverse uh let's say yeah you know
going below 0 degrees or or less through
to around minus30 um and you can get
below that without ice formation then
you're good and the interesting is is at
that point you're good for quite a long
time. So um uh there have been human
embryos that were reversibly cry that
were you know cry preserved for uh the
latest record was over 30 years and then
rewarmed and sort of viably used to
create pregnancy and then you know sort
of like there there are kids who were
literally cryerved for 30 years
>> as tiny embryos. And so that's the last
thing which was very surprising to me
which is that like we already reversibly
cry preserve tissue including human
tissue including whole body human tissue
at that very very small like you know in
a couple hundred cells stage
>> all the time and we do it for very long
time periods which I I honestly like
would have first principles been stuck
on is this possible to do at all? Is is
it possible to scale up to a large
complex biological system that has a lot
of vasculature um where you're dealing
with different material properties where
you have to think a lot about like
profusion and how to sort of diffuse
chemicals in and out and how to like get
heat and out quickly enough. So the idea
that you could pulse all molecular
motion and then randomly restart it and
even a cell would survive that you know
like from principles to me used to seem
crazy. We know that works.
>> Yeah. It's like wait, we just we already
like scientists just tried it and it
worked and so now the problem is like
scaling that up and doing it in a way
that's compatible with like you know
tissue health.
>> Yes. I think one of the things that was
most uh wildly surprising to me like
being in your um lab a little while ago
is how much it looks like people were
working on what I'd consider to be like
engineering problems around like oh how
do we get something to warm quickly and
safely enough versus uh uh let me go
work on this therapeutic. Yeah.
>> Yeah. So, so, so actually I feel like
there's this part of the problem that
I've been trying to explain externally
for a long time. Every time I try to
explain it, I think it comes off as like
not specific or something, but it is
actually one of the core reasons why I
think the problem is interesting to work
on, which is that like you can trade off
like engineering difficulty and
biological difficulty to a non-zero
degree. Like not 100%. Like you can't
just use engineering to solve the
problem. You absolutely have biological
questions and like those questions could
come out in the negative for some use
cases. So like that's um not saying you
can just make an engineering problem but
like you can make your life easier on
the biology front by building better
engineering tooling and the fact that
that's possible is a huge deal. Like
that is that is not true for most
problems in biology and it gives you a
lot of leverage on the problem. This is
probably interesting to maybe only like
5% people watching this but like I think
that I'm obsessed with is just this idea
like temperature is such a beautiful
conceptual tool, right? It's like
temperature as an idea is something that
in physics took like took physicists
hundreds of years to come up with. It
links like molecular motion to a high
like a single high level measurable
parameter and just tuning temperature
like sort of tells you about almost like
the relative passage of time of like
molecules at the nanoscale which like
that's that's a highly non-trivial sort
of conceptual lever to have on a
problem. And in biology, one of the
biggest problems is like it's really
hard to find powerful conceptual levers
on sort of like for like nanocale um for
for manipulating like the nanoscale that
have anything approaching that degree of
sort of leverage. Basically what that
gives you is like you can apply a lot of
theoretical sort of um a lot of
theoretical toolkit used in physics to
model parts of this question in ways
that are actually useful. And it is just
not true that you can use like equations
from physics to think usefully about
almost any other problem in biology.
There are publications like in the
context of like medical devices, but
like um in a in a in a context where
you're talking about like changing the
course of terminal illness um which this
one is interesting this doesn't mean
lateral change it but like it gives you
the possibility of more time. I think is
one of the most important things about
the the problem. I don't understand how
to explain it in a way that is clear but
but I think it's like one of the most
important things to understand about the
problem. Yeah, maybe if I think about
actually applying it like just very
concretely to what you are doing like if
it is challenging from a you know organ
preservation biology perspective to have
a organ reheated or sorry rewarmed like
evenly throughout. Then maybe the thing
to do is to like change the surface area
to volume ratio of like your heating
device or distribute the heat in
different ways without like changing
your understanding of the biology but
just with um new devices and
technologies that you invent from the
engineering perspective. Like that
actually seems like a very simple
example. I realize you're implying a
like more fundamental view of like why
temperature is just such a um
interesting framework to be working on
from both an engineering perspective and
a biology perspective. And there's like
trade-offs where you put your effort
here. But I I think that's actually
that's something that like didn't did
not occur to me at all coming into your
lab and learning more about until I was
like, oh, it's actually like a to some
degree much simpler problem than I
understood. Um to the point of like,
well, if you can just reduce and
preserve temp reduce and increase
temperature in these ways that are
perfect through this organ, it's going
to work, right?
>> Yeah. So, so I uh let me restate that
and then give one caveat um just to make
sure that um like I I correctly. So a
way that you can talk about the
trade-off between engineering and
biology is that like with engineering
you can modulate cooling and and
rewarming rate just to some to certain
extents and then that can then change
like how much uh what we call crop
protective agent or kind of chemical
that um modulates ice formation you add
to the system and you want to minimize
the concentration of that crop
protective agent so that
>> be toxic. Exactly. And so as you
increase cooling and rewarming rate, aka
spending therefore minimal time in kind
of the danger zone of ice formation, you
can correspondingly decrease the
concentration of carbon that you're
putting in. But if you could
instantaneously cool and rewarm, then
you wouldn't have to put any CPA in. But
that that's not something that uh we're
default assuming is feasible for a a
large system. Um so that there there's
still always going to be a component of
biology aka like how tissue responds,
especially from toxicity perspective to
like a new chemical agent. Where are you
now in this progression? Like should I
think of it as like there's a kidney and
then it seems like quite a large jump to
a small animal but maybe it's not.
>> Yeah. So we work on the two in parallel.
Um so we both work on scaling up cryp
preservation and rewarming technologies
to kind of human organ scale and also in
parallel we work on sort of whole rat uh
reversible hibernation uh and
transitioning technologies over um from
sort of um what we learn on the kidney
side into into the rat context as well
as doing things specifically for for
rat.
>> When you started the company did you
have a timeline in your own mind? I so I
I think initially I was like we could
maybe make some progress and hopefully
make some good products, but like the
idea of full body cry preservation felt
like that would be really far out if
that was possible. I mean I think it I I
I definitely still wouldn't put like a
near-term timeline on it, but it I feel
like we have a much clearer road map at
least to get to begin to get there and
the first steps seem faster than than I
would have imagined. Um if that makes
sense. Like but the the big unknown to
get to whole body reversible is the
brain. Um it's unclear like like the
brain can withstand a lot of change and
does withstand a lot of different types
of damage or or change with age for
example. Um but it's unclear whether
like what kind of injury the brain could
sustain in the context of like a whole
bible corporation protocol and then like
what level of fidelity it's possible to
do. So like that that to be clear is a
big unknown on the neuroscience side.
How do you recruit uh and like lead in a
company that has like let's say an
unclear like timeline around a really
big scientific goal like that like in
terms of both finding people that are
the right fit motivating them and how do
you think about urgency in that context?
I mean I think we have a pretty clear
timeline for first product which is like
get a reversibly cry preserved or so uh
basically transplant patients today
surprisingly frequently miss organs that
are on route to them because there's a
timing problem. Um, so like you know,
organs expire um very quickly after they
become available from a donor. Um,
>> very unfortunate.
>> Yeah. And it's crazy because like
they're the they're like one of the most
precious resources we know of. And yet
like people regularly charter private
jets, you know, like like you're putting
a surgeon on a private jet to go pick up
an organ, get it back to the patient in
time. Like and you're doing all that at
the last minute and scheduling the
patient for surgery
>> at the last minute. So the patient has
to wait within like a 2-hour radius of a
transplant center with pager on them or
like a notification device at all times.
And so the first product that we're
aiming towards is just you know being
able to pause time for the organs so the
patient doesn't so you know you can take
as long as you need to get the organ to
the patient. Um and that that's very
near-term like that that's not long-term
threshold that's like we're aiming to
get that into like studies and into the
clinic as quickly as possible. So I
think it helps to have a very concrete
goal that clearly is relevant to a
long-term goal. Right. I think another
thing that was inspiring to us about
that project was like if we're at all
talking about whole body reversible cry
preservation and we can't make a dent on
that problem like
>> there's no version of not going through
it.
>> Yeah.
>> It's one of the things like it's like if
you're serious that should be doable and
if like you can't do that then like you
you're not the company to like do the
long-term thing. So that that was it was
nice for us to like have a very clear
benchmark for ourselves of like you know
it are we correct that this is
attractable technology on that scale. I
guess like is it is it a challenge or to
to lead beyond that because everybody
understands the company has a a broader
mission or is it just focus on step one?
I I I think I think there there there's
the the possibility that's difficult but
I I I think right now I feel good about
sort of our ability to communicate
around that which is like I think if we
were like it's 100% possible to do full
body work corporation there's no
question we're certain um like then we
would just be bullshitters and then we
like we wouldn't be able to recruit
because it's you know there there's a
lot of technical risk and there's a lot
of uncertainty between here and there.
But I think we can't accurately expose
the models that we use to think about
the problem why we think that this is at
all like possibly in scope and like you
know what we're testing to you know sort
of trying to get closer to there and I I
think the problem is interesting enough
that you know someone sort of like
really good people tend to be skeptical
at first because there's an intuition
that it shouldn't work but then like
they'll see a lot of data very quickly
where it's like wait I wouldn't have
thought that was possible intuitively
but that seems to be possible and so
like let me think about some reverse
principles. What's another data point
that you think matters besides like
embryos can be frozen.
>> Embryos can be reversely carb preserved.
Um I mean there's uh work from the
existing carbology community um so from
John Dashoff's group and then predated
by that um also you know Greg Fahheed
has done excellent work um sort of
looking at reversible carb preservation
in kidneys and showing like you can
reversely car preserve a kidney reworm
it put it into a rat that does not have
another kidney and that rat returns
normal function after about a month. So
sort of like you know even just on the
whole the million organ scale like this
is not a problem that's entirely out in
the wilderness is something that like um
is even academically tractable right
now.
>> Given that's true why don't you think
it's been worked on? Um
>> I realize I'm asking an answer for other
people but I'm like well that's very
odd.
>> Yeah. I mean I I think even the field of
like organ reversal car preservation
really had trouble for a while
attracting the resources that would be
required to to scale it. And I and I
really give a lot of credit to the field
pioneers like you know Greg you know is
just an incredible example of somebody
who fought tirelessly to make this field
a reality and sort of make vetification
a thing that people were taking
seriously and you know like like through
a long period where I think it just
wasn't kind of something to to focus on.
I don't know how to put it, but like in
venture like I think my whole my whole
job sort of in that part of my life is
like picking trends that like sort of
feel like oh this this thing just
feels weird or it seems kind of hard to
think about but technically like there's
nothing kind of that corresponds to
that.
>> And I think like for example whole body
corps preservation like now seen as just
much more kind of reasonable but whole
body preservation definitely an area
where I I think there's just like so
much possibility for conflation with
like really extreme like like it's it's
it's um it's hard to talk about it
rationally. people either like love it
and they love it so much that they won't
question it or it's like they're worried
that thinking about that associating
with it is a little bit too science
fiction for kind of where it might be
optimal for them to be focused. And so I
think like I'm kind of dancing around
some things that like are still but
antiimetic around it. But yeah, the the
study of longevity has become much more
mainstream over the last 5 years or so.
um uh both academically um and uh in
terms of consumer interest, right? And I
think those two things are linked. Um do
you hope that happens with
cryopreservation aging becoming
something that like a one of the the
best like someone who seems one of the
best like next generation professors
chooses to work on without shame or fear
of like not getting a grant is great.
that part of aging being unstream is
great and like I definitely hope that
that happens for cryp also for
creservation of like variety of tissues
including like neural tissue um and
including like things related to um
whole body work not exclusively but like
like you basically those topics are or
like um seen as something that you're
like it's fine to work on maybe uh just
like if you go to paint a picture of um
organ transplantation
is transformed by you know until like in
what ways like how do you think that
will change um either what type of care
patients can receive or even do you
think that has any impact on how people
think about um the uh the speed of
medical research. I think the thing that
feels the most compelling for me is just
like the experience of the transplant
patient. It's really I think
constricting. It's like you're waiting
for a life-changing surgery and you have
no idea when it will even be scheduled,
you know, and you can't go on vacation
or really leave like and you have to
like move you you have to be like close
to the place where you will get surgery
and you can't leave a certain radius of
like travel distance to that place for
fear of losing out on your lifeanging
surgery. Like
>> that is such a um
>> surgery center house arrest.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. That's such a crazy proposition.
And then I also think um you know right
now for matching it's like everything's
done at literally the last minute. It's
like someone dies, an organ comes
available and like you're just kind of
calling around trying to find like what
patient is available to get this organ
and you don't have that much time to
make the optimal match, right? It's sort
of like like who can get to the
hospital.
Yikes.
>> Um, and so I think just like one sort of
trust surgeon that that we've been
working with, the way he described it
was just like just making time not a
variable changes the whole paradigm. And
I don't think that will happen overnight
obviously, but like I think the dream
would be that like everyone in the
ecosystem has the time they need to like
you know make the best possible decision
sort of like do things in a way that
feels the best for them. You know the
surgeon doesn't have to stay up
overnight the same day that they flew
out to get the organ to do this the
surgery. you know, they can like wait
sort of until it's like the best time um
for them instead of doing it like
literally, you know, like as soon as
they land like they go into operation
like that that it just it's sort of
something that when you really think
about it, it's like it's amazing that I
mean it's incredible that like everyone
is operating this way right now.
>> Maybe to close up if we broaden the
scope a little bit. uh are there other
problems that are in let's say biology,
medicine, science, technology that you
think are like worth working on and
interesting and per perhaps feasible but
people are not looking at as much as
they should be. You know, maybe not even
making a value judgment, but that you're
curious about aesthetically. I'm just
really curious about like how to
represent the molecular world in a way
that people can understand and engage
with. Like I think it's just such a cool
and beautiful thing. It's like a kind
it's like, you know, we're talking about
kindergarten like worlds early. It's
like this beautiful kindergarten like um
feels in my mind very colorful even
though it's like not literally um sort
of place to play around and I think most
people experience it as like flat
triangles and squares in a biology
textbook where it's like you know
there's an arrow between like this
triangle and this triangle is just like
doesn't make any conceptual sense and is
like confusing and annoying and so I'm
just like I I personally really curious
about like how to represent the world in
a way that is really compelling and
feels super exciting
>> from an education perspective.
>> I think it is artistically cool if it's
educational but I think it's it's more
just because I think it's so beautiful.
It's like if you've never seen a tree,
it's like being able to see a tree. It's
like that would be so great, right? You
know, it's like this complex fractal
thing and all light falling through the
the sort of tree branches. And I think
like the world is like that. It's just
it's a kind of video that's not made
accessible to most people. Um it's hard
to conceptualize. You have to like do
some amount of studying to sort of like
build the world in your mind correctly.
I look forward to finding that art.
>> Thanks, Laura. Thanks for having me.
>> Find us on Twitter at no prior pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way, you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-briers.com.